# DAEN690-Financial-Navigators

There are more costs for higher education than tuition and related scholastic fees for an incoming student. These additional costs are difficult to quantify, poorly communicated, and can result in a mismatch between financial aid and the true costs of attendance. Insufficient financial aid can lead to a student quitting school, while too much aid can burden the student with unnecessary debt. Previous research has explored the lack of federal policy guidance concerning cost estimations and how they vary widely between institutions. This paper attempts to find the true cost of attendance to better align financial aid to student needs. We developed an independent cost estimate based on EPI cost of living data and compared that to IPEDS data reported by institutions to explore the cost disparities. The data was visualized with a Tableau dashboard which will be made available to the public. Our findings show institution estimations vary widely, even between similar schools within the same state. This paper and its accompanying dashboard introduce a cost estimator designed to offer decision-makers—whether students, parents, policy makers, or financial aid officers—a more accurate calculation that transparently outlines all associated costs. With this knowledge, students can plan appropriately for the financial impact of their education, financial aid officers can tune their federally mandated cost estimates to better aid incoming students, and policy makers can investigate the discrepancies highlighted to adjust legislation addressing cost estimation accuracy. 
